Complete the following MCQs based on the concepts you have learned while implementing POST requests in your Node.js application.



These questions will test your understanding of:


1. How POST requests work in Express.

2. Using Axios to send data from a form.

3. Handling request bodies on the server.

4. Returning responses and debugging with console.log.

5. Testing APIs with Postman.



Let’s see how well you’ve grasped the concepts!




Ques 1. What does res.sendFile() do in an Express application?

Ans: Its send a static file from the server to the client.

Explaination: res.sendFile() is used to send a file as a response to the client in an Express application.



Ques 2. Which folder is commonly used to store static assets (like images, styles, and JavaScript) in an Express app?

Ans: public

Explaination: The public folder is typically used to store static files that the server can serve directly to clients.



Ques 3. In Express, what is the purpose of express.static() middleware?

Ans: To serve static files like HTML, CSS and JavaScript

Explaination: express.static() middleware is used to serve static files (such as images, JavaScript, CSS) from a specified folder.



Ques 4. How do you use express.json() middleware in Express?

Ans: To handle POST requests that contain JSON data

Explaination: express.json() middleware is used to parse JSON data sent in the body of POST requests.



Ques 5. In Express, how can you access data sent in the body of a POST request?

Ans: req.body

Explaination:  Data from a POST request is available in the req.body object when using appropriate middleware like express.json().



Ques 6. What does the onsubmit function do in an HTML form?

Ans: Its prevent the form from submitting and handle data submission via JavaScript

Explaination: The onsubmit function is used to handle form submission using JavaScript, often to prevent the default form submission behavior and submit data asynchronously.



Ques 7. What is the purpose of the <script> tag in an HTML document?

Ans: To include JavaScript code that runs in the browser

Explaination: The <script> tag is used to embed or link JavaScript code in an HTML document, enabling client-side behavior.



Ques 8. In the context of making a POST request with Axios, what does the axios.post() method do?

Ans: It sends data to the server in a POST request.

Explaination: axios.post() is used to send data to the server as part of a POST request.



Ques 9. Which of the following is the correct way to use axios.post() in JavaScript to send data?

Ans: axios.post('/url',{data:'value})

Explaination: This syntax is correct for sending data using a POST request with Axios, where the data is included in the second argument.



Ques 10. What is JSON parsing?

Ans: Converting JSON data into a JavaScript object so it can be used in the application.

Explaination:  JSON parsing refers to converting a JSON string into a JavaScript object that can be used within the application.



Ques 11. What will happen if a static file is requested from the Express server, but the file is not found in the static folder?

Ans: The server will send a 404 error page.

Explaination: If a requested static file is not found in the designated static folder, Express will return a 404 error, indicating that the file was not found.